To be fleshed out and turned into some sort of documentation (intro, how-to, or user-guide?).

Connector:

The Connector class can build up, handle, and organize datasets consisting of shapely vector polygon labels (as well as tabular information about them in the form of a GeoDataFrame) and remote sensing raster images and potentially (semantic) segmentation pixel labels (e.g. GeoTiffs or .npy files) (as well as tabular information about the images and pixel labels in the form of a GeoDataFrame) by providing a two-way linkage between the polygons and the images/pixel labels automatically keeping track of which polygons are contained in which images/pixel labels.

The basic use-case is a remote sensing semantic segmentation project in which one is given (shapely) vector polygon labels that were not generated by starting with a remote sensing raster image dataset and then labelling it. One then wants to either build a remote sensing raster image dataset containing the vector polygon labels (and at a later stage also generate segmentation pixel labels) or organize an existing dataset for use with a semantic segmentation machine learning model. The images are potentially huge (e.g. ~1GB for Sentinel-2 GeoTiffs before unzipping) so that it could be very wasteful in terms of storage needed to download a separate image for each polygon label if an image might contain several polygon labels. Even if one were to ignore this one would run into the problem that when creating segmentation pixel labels for an image one needs to know which polygons are contained in that image. If one only labels the polygon for which the image was downloaded one might miss many polygons that are also contained in the same image. This would introduce avoidable 'false negative' examples (pixels labelled as belonging to the background when they actually belong to a non-background segmentation class) into the dataset. Thus one wants to keep track of which polygons are contained in a given image. Also, for some appplications in which one is interested in GIVE AN EXAMPLE QQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQ one might want to know which images contain a certain given vector polygon label. 

The information which images contain or intersect which polygons and the other way around can be summarized in a bipartite graph with vertices the vector polygons and images and edges indicating a non-empty intersection or full-containment relation between a ploygon and an image. The associator is built around two GeoDataFrames, polygons_df and raster_imgs, containing tabular information about the polygons and images (and pixel labels) in the dataset, which can be accessed and manipulated as attributes. Any manipulations that affect the graph (i.e. adding or dropping polygons or images to or from the dataset, or changing the value of the geometry column in the polygons_df dataframe, i.e. changing the polygon geometry) must be done through the associator and not directly on the GeoDataFrames so that the associator can automatically adjust the internal graph.

Data Directory:

A directory that contains a dataset and an associator for that dataset. A data directory contains subdirectories for the images and (pixel) labels and the files in which the associator information is saved (the polygons_df and raster_imgs GeoDataFrames, the internal bipartite graph keeping track of the containment/intersection relations, a parameter dictionary).

Dataset:

A dataset consists of images and pixel labels. 

How to get started:

    * Make an empty associator
    * Build up 
    * Basic functions

How to adapt to your purposes:

Note for users who need to adapt the associator (e.g. implementing their own download and processing functions in a sublass) for their own purposes: Since pathlib.Path objects are not serializable any values in the internal parameter dictionary will be saved as strings. Thus when subtyping this class or one should take care to apply Path(str_parameter_that_should_be_a_path) when retrieving paths from the dict!